# pinterest-data-pipeline

This project is a work in progress.

## Project Brief

Build the system that Pinterest uses to analyse both historical, and real-time data generated by posts from their users.

Pinterest has world-class machine learning engineering systems. They have billions of user interactions such as image uploads or image clicks which they need to process every day to inform the decisions to make. In this project, I am building a system in the cloud that takes in those events and runs them through two separate pipelines. One for computing real-time metrics (such as profile popularity, which would be used to recommend that profile in real-time), and another for computing metrics that depend on historical data (such as the most popular category this year).

## The data

In order to emulate the kind of data that Pinterest's engineers are likely to work with, AiCore provide a script, [user_posting_emulation.py](user_posting_emulation.py) that when run from the terminal mimics the stream of random data points received by the Pinterest API when POST requests are made by users uploading data to Pinterest.

Running the script instantiates a database connector class, which is used to connect to an AWS RDS database containing the following tables:

- `pinterest_data` contains data about posts being updated to Pinterest
- `geolocation_data` contains data about the geolocation of each Pinterest post found in pinterest_data
- `user_data` contains data about the user that has uploaded each post found in pinterest_data

The `run_infinite_post_data_loop()` method then infinitely iterates at random intervals between 0 and 2 seconds, selecting all columns of a random row from each of the three tables and writing the data to a dictionary. The three dictionaries are then printed to the console.

Examples of the data generated look like the following:

pinterest_data:
```
{'index': 7528, 'unique_id': 'fbe53c66-3442-4773-b19e-d3ec6f54dddf', 'title': 'No Title Data Available', 'description': 'No description available Story format', 'poster_name': 'User Info Error', 'follower_count': 'User Info Error', 'tag_list': 'N,o, ,T,a,g,s, ,A,v,a,i,l,a,b,l,e', 'is_image_or_video': 'multi-video(story page format)', 'image_src': 'Image src error.', 'downloaded': 0, 'save_location': 'Local save in /data/mens-fashion', 'category': 'mens-fashion'}
```

geolocation_data:
```
{'ind': 7528, 'timestamp': datetime.datetime(2020, 8, 28, 3, 52, 47), 'latitude': -89.9787, 'longitude': -173.293, 'country': 'Albania'}
```

user_data:
```
{'ind': 7528, 'first_name': 'Abigail', 'last_name': 'Ali', 'age': 20, 'date_joined': datetime.datetime(2015, 10, 24, 11, 23, 51)}
```

## Tools used

This project is built using AWS architecture. The following tools were used:

- Apache Kafka
